Security analysts are hired to
protect company assets and data,
including knowing when and
how to escalate
security incidents.
In this video, we'll define
security incident
escalation and discuss
your role in making
decisions that help protect
your organization's
data and assets.
So what is incident escalation? And
why is it so important for
security professionals?
Incident escalation
is the process of
identifying a potential
security incident,
triaging it, and (if appropriate)
handing it off to a more
experienced team member.
It's important to
also recognize that
not every incident
needs to be escalated.
In this video, we'll cover
what types of incidents
should be escalated.
As an entry-level analyst,
it's unlikely that
you'll be responding to security
incidents independently.
However, it's important that
you know how to evaluate and
escalate incidents to
the right individual
or team when necessary.
Let's discuss the
essential skills needed to
properly escalate
security incidents.
There are two essential
skills that will help you
identify security incidents
that need to be escalated:
attention to detail and
an ability to follow
an organization's escalation
guidelines or processes.
Attention to detail will help
you quickly identify when
something doesn't
seem right within
the organization's
network or systems.
Following a company's escalation
guidelines or processes
will help you know
how to properly
escalate the issue
you've identified.
Larger organizations'
security teams have
many levels, and each level,
or member, of that team plays
a major role in protecting the
company's assets and data.
However, smaller and
medium sized companies have
only one or two people
responsible for the
organization's security.
For now, we'll focus on
the roles in bigger
organizations.
From the Chief Information
Security Officer,
also known as the CISO,
to the engineering team,
public relations team,
and even the legal team,
every member of the
security team matters.
Each team member's
role depends on
the nature and scope
of the incident.
These roles are
highlighted within
a company's escalation process.
Even the smallest
security incident can
become a much larger
issue if not addressed.
And that's where you come in!
Imagine you're
working at your desk
and notice what appears
to be a minor incident,
but you decide to take a break
before addressing
or escalating it.
This decision could have
major consequences.
If a small issue goes
unescalated for too long,
it has the potential to become
a larger problem that
costs the company money,
exposes sensitive customer data,
or damages the
company's reputation.
However, with a high-level of
attention to detail, and
an ability to follow
your organization's
escalation guidelines
and processes, it may be
possible to avoid exposing
the business, and its customers,
to harmful incidents.
As an entry-level analyst,
you play an important role.
You help the security
team identify
issues within the network and
systems and help make sure
the right person on the team is
alerted when incidents occur.
Think about an assembly line.
Would the final step in the
line be negatively impacted
if the first step were done
incorrectly, or not at all?
Of course it would!
Every decision you make helps
the entire security team protect
an organization's
assets and data.
Knowing when and how to
escalate security incidents
is one of many
important decisions
you'll need to make
on a daily basis.
Later in this course,
we'll discuss the various
levels of security incidents.
Knowing those levels will help
you determine the level of
urgency needed to escalate
different incident types.